lecture 1 2026-09-02
get lecture recording from the lecturer, ask abt future recordings - osama@bu.edu
 - on blackboard
get phone number from blackboard, join slack channel or whichever form of group communication is created
get new slides, replace the old one copied on this repo
ask lecturer about etiquette of attending a phd thesis defense
 - public! no need for invitation
ask lecturer about how attendance is measured
 - based on trust and a general vibe
ask lecturer about enabling captions on the zoom so that i can hear him better
 - he will do this he said
ask lecturer - for filling out the survey, have taken no graduate classes except this one technically - what gives?
ask lecturer - cannot afford ai account. will look for free options but should notify him.
 - send email

ai = elephant in table. jesus christ

previous knowledge: one scholar many fields -> electrical engineer profession-> specialisation etc.
prediction of future: A. specialisation continues/bimodal split (frontier specialists go deeper, ai augmented generalists integrate across domains)/reversal "death becomes a commodity, breadth wins broadly"
guess which prof thinks abt future? B for bimodal split

question the phrase of "AI-augmented generalists"
 - is generative AI useful? is it more useful as hallucinations decrease?
 - risk of treating generative AI like search engine instead of using it as a prompter
 - does generative AI make people lazy? or does it facilitate laziness? 
 - - preferring ease of accessing information isn't a sin
 - propagation of false sources/citations by generative AI

rag process - generative ai that can be set to only use uploaded documents

factors that encourage ai:
 - companies want more from one person - focus on efficiency and output speed
 - ai serves as the professor's phd student, aiding with speed and effectively a junior assistant
 - a single skill cannot sustain itself; "earlier tools cheapened access to knowledge; generative ai cheapens the execution of procedural depth itself"
 - - advantage now is "integration across domains with enough depth in each domain to tell good work from confident nonsense"
 
 terence tao words on LLMs solving open problems.

MORE INFO ON SLIDES:
product formation
product analysis
use-case development
product testing
concept validation
after launch

project 1: tutorial w. quiz questions + proposal. papers, quizzes, who is it for
project 2: prototype, validate, or test essence of your proposal. get provable aid from ai
project 3: societal impact of technology
project 4: seminar review (of seminar, conference, phd thesis defense.)

team project: team of 3, 5 sprints and then poster/presentation

all homework, documents, projects must be on github or shared drive.
github account required.

next week focus on becoming familiar with github, code management principles, agile development

"the only way to lose it [grade of A] is not to go deep" <- ?

"my friend claude" fdkjfkjdf

important things to decide:
who uses it?
what decision does it support? what choices might it recommend?
cost of a miss - a false negative
cost of a false alarm - a false positive
what to optimise - sensitivity or precision or some ratio of the two?
design consequences and requirements